
Thread From : 

    529 : MMORPG Game Engine Fractal Brush : _F_
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4EhCpPNsjM
    &lc=UgyDjd2W4vCStNF_sjl4AaABAg.9ucEF4mBKz49ue0-_7AojX

FROM: @TwistableGolf
    The fact that you can write a single line of code 
    at this point is equal parts impressive and horrifying.
    There is no logic to what you're doing, why on earth 
    aren't you splitting the code in to different files, 
    why the hell are you deploying it to 
    a Heroku instance every time, what the fuck is happening
 
FROM: @KanjiCoder :

    You are 100% correct that what I am doing is insane. 
    But I do have a bit of method to the madness.

    Q1. Why not multiple files ?

    1. Faster Code Reviews
    2. I don't have to grep across multiple files.
    3. Engine is single-payload
    4. Though the engine is not spread across multiple 
       files, the "concept" of a file as an organizational 
       principle still exists in the code base.

    Q2. Why am I deploying to heroku every time ?
    1. The best mock server is an actual server.
    2. The engine file is actually a client AND server. 
       It detects where it is running. This means that the 
       client-server contract is always up to date.

       Also, heroku , render.com , googleAppEngine... 
       None of them have a free tier anymore.

       Do you know of any cloud provider with a 100% free tier ? 
       I was thinking "openshift" if that still exists and 
       "IBM Cloud" .

FROM: @TwistableGolf :
    @KANJICODER  
    Gonna hit you back with some questions on your answers.
    Q1.
    1. Who's reviewing the code? Is it not just you writing it?
    2. If the files are named logically, you don't really 
       have to grep to find things, you just know where they'll 
       be. Besides, a good IDE can get you to where you want 
       to be instantly.
    3. It's also a 15MB file with all the comments, 
       that's pretty big for a JS engine.
    4. Same as 2 I guess.

    Q2.
    1. I don't even really agree with this. 
       There is absolutely no difference between running 
       it locally and running it on a server. You're not 
       running the game on the server, all it's doing is 
       streaming the file down to you, your browser is what 
       executes it, and that's identical regardless of where 
       the file is.
    2. Also not a good idea, not all changes to the server 
       will change the contract between the two, 
       so re-sending the engine to clients is pointless a 
       lot of the time. The same works the other way. A small 
       change to the rendering engine doesn't require the 
       server to be re-deployed.

    You can put a file on a firebase instance for free 
    afaik, you only start paying if hundreds of thousands 
    of people start requesting it.

FROM: @KANJICODER :

    Youtube comments suck and this thread is getting a bit
    large, so I've copied this thread into a text file and
    put it into the repo at :

    github.com/KanjiCoder/AIM/tree/master
    /DOC/YOUTUBE_COMMENTS/TwistableGolf
    
Q1.1 : I am reviewing the code. I actually catch a lot of
     : bugs reviewing it, but the main reason I review it
     : is to effectively comment 100% of the file.
     : I've decided it's too hard to decide what is 
     : obvious and what is not. You never truely know
     : until after the fact.

Q1.2 : Good IDEs and logical naming can definitely speed
     : you up. I would say I am about 10X faster of a
     : programmer using something like Visual Studio
     : or IntelliJ. But that speed also impacts my
     : code quality. I want to write my code at a turtle
     : pace, but at a constant pace. In my experience,
     : project development time tends to start at a blazingly
     : fast rate, and decline over time as the project hits
     : a "critical mass".

Q1.3 : The code is going to grow in size. That can't be helped.
     : Tangentally Related : Lines Of Code is a GOOD METRIC
     : but only a good metric for comparing against yourself
     : assuming you write code with consistent information
     : density. For example, my code is very "fluffy"
     : in terms of information density, but that fluffyness
     : is relatively consistent, so I can rougly say that
     : 200 lines does 2X as much as 100 lines.


Q2.1 : I would say localhost node.js server and a remote
     : server are like... 99% the same, sure. But for
     : the sake of argument, let me give you the
     : "absolutely no difference" argument.
     :
     : That doesn't change the fact that running your
     : code locally is effectively a "proof of concept"
     : that your code hypothetically runs remotely.
     :
     : For example :
     :      
     :    The code deploys out of the box to :
     :    1. Heroku
     :    2. Render.com
     :    3. Google App Engine
     :
     : Modifications to the code were required to 
     : make this possible.

Q2.2 : "Resending the engine to clients is pointless"
     : "a lot of the time".
     : 100% absolutely true. But an optimization I am 
     : not worried about at this time. Eventually I
     : may want to wrap this engine code in Electron.JS
     : and have it run as a window's application. At
     : that time, I'll have to worry about this more.
     :
     : For now, I'd rather not waste brain cycles deciding
     : whether or not changes to the server need to actually
     : happen or not.
     :
     : I did recently modify the code so that you can 
     : run it "locally" in a browser without having to
     : have a Node.JS server running.
     :
     : However, not all features of the engine work when
     : doing this. But its fine for working on rendering code.

Q2.2 : ( Continued )
     : This could actually be a big problem once we have
     : a server that needs to STAY UP and re-deploying
     : causes downtime and the booting of everyone from
     : whatever they were doing.
     :
     : I am sure I'll figure out a solution when the time
     : comes.

FIREBASE :
     : Firebase is a google product right? I was using
     : a free trial of google app engine for a bit.
     : Then my credit card expired a week into the
     : trial and they cancelled my free trial.
     : I am kind of stubborn and didn't want to give 
     : them updated credit card info for a free trial.
     : Why should I do that google? So when I forget
     : to cancel you can start auto billing me ? 
     : Thanks but no thanks.
     :
     : Google App Engine is pretty good. But deploy times
     : are much slower than heroku. Heroku takes 5 -to- 30  
     : seconds where Google App Engine takes 50 -to- 90 
     : seconds. I mean, this was when I was actively using
     : those platforms, I am sure that could have changed.

    All things aside, I hope that we can at least agree that
    the most important thing is that the code works. Other
    things are of important priority, but I never formally
    declare a priority past #1 because I would eventually
    contradict myself if I counted past 1.

    Also, I know a lot of professional game industry
    programmers...

    Appeal to authority ? Yes.

    But... 100% of them would agree with _YOU_ .
    One of them tags me on facebook with various
    "code war crimes" memes.